Add Git and GitHub section to SOP (#52)
emlab-ucsb/SOP: 04-gh/09-public-repos.qmd

## Archiving a repository with Zenodo

Many journals now require a persistent, citable archive of the code and data accompanying a paper. [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org) is a free, open-access repository hosted by CERN that integrates directly with GitHub and issues a DOI for each release.

### Linking your GitHub repository to Zenodo

Zenodo provides [official documentation on GitHub integration](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/archiving-a-github-repository/referencing-and-citing-content) for citable releases. The steps below summarize the process:

1. Go to [zenodo.org](https://zenodo.org) and log in with your GitHub account.
2. Navigate to your account settings and select **GitHub** under the "Linked accounts" section.
3. Find your repository in the list and toggle it **on**. Zenodo will now watch for new releases.

### Creating a release to trigger archiving

Once the repository is linked, every GitHub release you create will be automatically archived in Zenodo and assigned a DOI.

1. On GitHub, navigate to your repository and click **Releases → Draft a new release**.

> 2. Choose a tag (e.g., `v1.0.0`) and write a brief description of what the release represents (e.g., "Code and data for manuscript submission").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Choose a tag (e.g., `v0.1.0`)^[While it is more commonplace among software developers than academics, we recommend using Semantic Versioning (https://semver.org)] and write a brief description of what the release represents (e.g., "Code and data for manuscript submission").
```
